So now that we have a good understanding of the basic
building blocks of the Internet of Things,
why would we actually use it in our organizations?
Well one of the first reasons we might do this is to actually collect data.
Now you can think of an example of a truck that constantly sends GPS
coordinates out to some home server and stores that data.
Now you could eventually build a lot of value with
that data after you've collected it, maybe to optimize truck routes,
or to do other things that would enable you to save money in
your own environment or potentially increase the amount of
products that you could sell or deliver.
There's also the possibility of device interaction.
Now you can think of this, for example, as a light bulb,
which allows control over the color or the brightness of the light bulb
using some sort of application on a mobile phone.
Now data collection and device interaction are two generic categories
of what you might do with the Internet of Things.
But you could also do both.
For example,
you might have a thermostat that reads the temperature of the room and then
allows remote changes to the heating and the AC settings.
And this would be both data collection by collecting the information
from the thermostat of the temperature of the room,
and then also device interaction by allowing some user,
maybe with a mobile application,
to change that heating level to a higher temperature if they are too
cold or a lower temperature if it's a bit hot outside.
Now let's think about this a little bit more by examining what
kinds of data we might actually collect.
We could think of this in terms of the types of text data that we
might store from sensors giving us information.
Now this could be things like JSON, JavaScript Object Notation,
it could also be Comma Separated Values,
or CSV, or Pipe Separated Values, or PSV,
or other delimited formats like those.
And we could also have sensor data that outputs media files,
so not just these text-based formats,
but formats that are going to give us images or audio.
We could also have video information coming from our IoT devices as well.
Now all of these different pieces of data are going to allow us to do
different things and eventually improve our applications.
So when it comes to improving the outcomes for our organizations using IoT,
we might see these split up into two general categories of
revenue growth and operational efficiency.
Now there's also things that will probably fall somewhat in the middle,
but this will help us come up with a few examples of how
we might improve our organization.
So the first might be improving customer relationships.
Maybe whatever we're doing with IoT would allow us to have better
relationships with customers in a way that would either generate
more revenue or keep those customers around longer so they continue
to take advantage of our products and we have an ongoing business
relationship with them.
We might also improve existing products using IoT.
So maybe we develop a new feature on an existing
product or improve an older feature.
We could also do things like creating entirely new products and
services with IoT and the options that it gives us.
Now all of these are on the revenue growth side,
which would get us more money for our organization.
However, there's also the operational efficiency side,
which would increase the efficiency of the organization or the product itself.
Now this could save us money in the long run so that we don't have to do as
much work or expend as much on particular tasks or resources.
Now also under the operational efficiency side,
we can make more informed business decisions based on the data we collect.
For example,
if we have a bunch of information coming in from a manufacturing site and we
have that coming in from all the manufacturing equipment,
maybe we can have a data analyst look at all that information
and help us make important business decisions that inform
what we're doing in the long run.
Now these are just generic examples of revenue
growth and operational efficiency.
In future videos,
we'll take a closer look at specific examples of how particular companies did this themselves inside their own organizations.